---
title: FAQ
date: 2024-08-15T23:19:30-05:00
---

Here are some answers to questions you might have.  If you have a
question that isn't answered here, reach out to us either via email or
in any of our community forums.

## What is the Gizmo _REALLY_?

The Gizmo is a hardware carrier board that accepts two Raspberry Pi
Pico microcontrollers.  One of the Picos runs system code that
supervises network I/O, board functions, and status indicators.  The
second processor is for your code and is connected to all of the I/O
headers.

The carrier board is supported by code that runs on a driver's station
which is commodity hardware based on the Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W and a
compact USB hub designed by Waveshare.

## Who is behind the Gizmo?

The Gizmo was developed by a consortium of engineers who attribute our
successful careers to a long history of tinkering with software,
electronics, and generally taking stuff apart to figure out how it
works.  The Gizmo provides a good toe-hold for aspiring engineers to
have the same experience we had without having to worry about ROM
burners, IRQ numbers, or many other bits of tech ephemera of ages
past.

## Why is it called the Gizmo?

Of the many names we could have chosen, Gizmo was put forward by one
of our engineers as a reference to the book "Electric Gadgets and
Gizmos: Battery-Powered Buildable Gadgets That Go!" by Alan
Bartholomew ([this book](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1550744399)).  The
Gizmo is a battery powered gadget that we've built, what will you
build with it?

## How do I get started with the Gizmo?

For full information, check out the complete documentation on our
[developer site](https://gizmoplatform.dev).  For a very high level
overview, check out the [startup](/startup) page.

## I want to get a Gizmo!

You can find up to date information on our [sourcing page](/sourcing).
This page includes links to all the hardware that makes up the entire
Gizmo ecosystem.
