---
title: Startup
date: 2024-08-16T00:02:32-05:00
---

Getting setup out of the box with the entire Gizmo platform is a
relatively straightforward process.  In general, here's what you'll
need to do:

## Assemble the Gizmo

The Gizmo itself requires minimal assembly.  You'll need to install
both processors which involves pressing them into the sockets on the
board.  With the board facing you (text where you can read it) install
the Raspberry Pi Pico WH on the left side (the WH is the one with the
metal square at the bottom).

Install the Raspbery Pi Pico H on the right side in a similar fashion.
It helps to press down with both thumbs equally at the top and bottom
of the Pico to ensure it goes in smoothly.  Be careful doing this on
top of a surface that can be scratched, as the pins that stick out of
the bottom of the board can scratch soft surfaces.

Once you've installed the processors, we recommend putting your Gizmo
in a suitable enclosure to protect it from physical damage.  [Here's
one](https://www.printables.com/model/961604-gizmo-version-10-case)
you can make with a 3D Printer.

You're now ready to install your Gizmo on a robot or other device and
write some software to make it do something!  Information about
programming the Gizmo is available [in the
manual](https://gizmoplatform.dev/code/intro.html).

## Assemble the Driver's Station

The driver's station needs to be physically assembled, then software
installed.  You can find full information on how to do this [in the
manual](https://gizmoplatform.dev/startup/ds.html).

---

## Assemble the FMS (Competition Only)

You only need to assemble the FMS if you're running a competition.
This is a fairly involved process, so consult [the
manual](https://gizmoplatform.dev/field/index.html) and don't be
afraid to [ask for help](/contact) if you need it.
